PDF, PDF and PMF are Fundamental concepts in probability theory, but they apply to different types of random variables and have different characteristics.

# Probability Density Function(PDF)
- 


# Probability Distribution Function (PDF)
- Applicable to continuous random variables, where varible can take on any value within a range.
- PDF denoted as $f(x)$, describes likelihood of the random variable taking on a specific value $x$.
- Mathematically
$$
P(a \le X \le b) = \int_a^b f(x) \, dx 
$$
- Here, $f(x)$ is the PDF and the integral of the PDF over a range $[a, b]$ gives probability that $X$ lies with in that range.

## Properties
- $f(x) \ge 0$ for all $x$.
- The total area under PDF is 1.
$$
\int_{-\infty}^{\infty} f(x) \, dx = 1
$$

## e.g., 
- For **normal distribution** with mean $\mu$ and standard deviation $\sigma$ the PDF is 
$$
f(x) = \frac{1}{\sigma \sqrt{2 \pi}} e^{\frac{-1}{2} {(\frac{x-\mu}{\sigma})^2}}
$$



# Probability Mass Function (PMF)
- Applicable to discrete random variables, where variable can take on specific countable values.
- PMF denoted as $P(X = x), gives the probability that the discrete random variable $X$ is exactly  equal to some value of $x$. 
- Mathematically for discrete random variable $X$, 
$$
P(X = x_i) = p(x_i)
$$
- Here $p(x_i)$ is PMF and $x_i$ are the specific values that $X$ can take.

## Properties
- $0 \le p(x_i)  \le 1$
- The sum of PMF over all the  possible values  is 1.
$$
\sum_i p(x_i) = 1
$$

## e.g., 
- For a fair six-sided die, the PMF is 
$$
\begin{equation*}
P(X = x) = \left\{
\begin{aligned}
& \frac{1}{6}  &  \text{if} \, x \in \{ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 \}, \\
& 0 & \text{otherwise}
\end{aligned}
\right.
\end{equation*}
$$


# Differences between PDF and PMF
- PDF is used for continuous random variables.
- PMF is used for discrete random variables.
