# Intro
* serverside caching
* Securing nginx application
*  

# About
* Created by Igor Sysoev
* fast, simple, modules, webserver , reverse  proxy server.
* Comparision with apache
* Used by top 1000 companies.
* Load balancer, Mail Server

# Nginx vs. Apache
* Apache configured in prefork mode -> single request at a time. 
* Nginx is asynchronous.
* Less resource usage compared to Apache.
* Nginx is faster than Apache.
	* Faster static resources.
	* Higer Concurrency.
* Apache can receive only preconfigured number of requests.
* Nginx interpretes incoming requests as URI Locations whereas Apache prefers to interpret requests as File system Locations.


# Nginx Installation
## Overview
* Digital Ocean droplet  is recommended with latest ubuntu or centos.
* SSH to server
* 

## Installation of nginx from source
* nginx.com
* download the sourcode using following command
```
wget http://nginx.org/download/nginx-1.13.10.tar.gz
```
* extract the tar ball with following command
```
tar -xvzf <filename.tar.gz>
```
* change into extracted directory and run following commands
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
sudo apt-get install libpcre3 libpcre3-dev zlib1g zlib1g-dev libssl-dev
./configure
```

* set the flags using the configuration before installing from source.
```
./configure --sbin-path=/usr/bin/nginx --conf-path=/etc/nginx/nginx.conf --error-log-path=/var/log/nginx/error.log --http-log-path=/var/log/nginx/access.log --with-pcre --pid-path=/var/run/nginx.pid --with-http_ssl_module
make
make install
```
 
## Installation via package manager
* Use the following command to install nginx
```
apt-get update
apt-get install nginx -y
```
 	
* to verify the running of nginx use the following command to check the process id.
```
ps aux | grep nginx
```

* to start, stop , check status of nginx use the following command
```
systemctl status nginx
systemctl start nginx
systemctl stop nginx
```

* If for some reason ngix is having port conflict as apache also runs in the same port.
* stop the apache service and use aforementioned commands to run the nginx again.
```
systemctl stop apache2.service
```
### Default working directory of nginx is 
```
/var/www/html
```
### Default Nginx configuration path
```
/etc/nginx/nginx.conf
```


# Adding an Nginx service
* systemd application will be used to run any application as a service, which will be available on ubuntu 15+ versions.
* to send stop signal to running nginx service use the following command, and confirm using ps aux command
```
nginx -s stop
ps aux | grep nginx
```
* To run the nginx as a service, look for init scripts in nginx.com, or search with the keyword in google "nginx init script systemd"
* More info can be found in url https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/examples/systemd/
* after saving init script run the application using following commands
```
systemctl start nginx
systemctl stop nginx
systemctl status nginx
```
* To run nginx on system boot time use the following command
```
systemctl enable nginx
```

# Nginx on windows
* Poor performance
* Single worker process
* Unsupported modules



# Nginx Modules
## Bundled Modules

## Thirdpart party modules





















